README.md, before:

# Proximity
Proximity is an open-source, immersive management layer for Proxmox based personal infrastructure.

> See [STATUS.md](STATUS.md) for detailed project status and progress.

---

## ✨ Key Features

*   **"Casa Digitale" (Digital Homestead):** An immersive, skeuomorphic "Command Deck" UI. We are building a virtual data center, not a web form.
*   **"Divertimento" (Fun):** A "gamified" UX with tactile interactions, animations, and audio feedback.
*   **"Tranquillità by Default" (Peace of Mind):** Self-healing backend, zero-downtime operations, and safety-first design.
*   **One-Click App Deployment:** Deploy from a curated catalog of applications in seconds.
*   **Container Adoption:** Discover and manage existing LXC containers on your Proxmox host.
*   **Real-time Monitoring:** Live metrics for CPU, RAM, and disk usage integrated directly into the UI.
*   **Automated Backups:** Configure and forget with scheduled, automatic backups.

## 🚀 Quick Start

Get Proximity up and running in a few minutes.

### Prerequisites

*   Docker & Docker Compose
*   Git
*   A running Proxmox VE host (v7.0+)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/fabriziosalmi/proximity.git
    cd proximity
    ```

2.  **Configure your environment:**
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    # Edit .env with your Proxmox host credentials and a new SECRET_KEY
    ```
    Update the `.env` file with:
    - Proxmox host IP/hostname and credentials
    - A new `SECRET_KEY` (generate with: `python -c "from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())"`)
    - Database URL (defaults to SQLite, can use PostgreSQL)

3.  **Launch the stack:**
    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d --build
    ```

4.  **Initialize the database:**
    ```bash
    docker-compose exec backend python manage.py migrate
    docker-compose exec backend python manage.py createsuperuser
    ```

5.  **Access Proximity:**
    *   **Frontend:** `https://localhost` (via Docker reverse proxy)
    *   **Backend API:** `http://localhost:8000/api/` (development)
    *   **API Docs:** `http://localhost:8000/api/docs` (Swagger UI)

For more detailed instructions, see the [Installation Guide](docs/INSTALLATION.md).

## 📚 Documentation

*   [**Project Status**](STATUS.md): Current progress, test results, deployment readiness
*   [**Installation Guide**](docs/INSTALLATION.md): Detailed setup and deployment instructions
*   [**Architecture**](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md): System design and technical architecture
*   [**API Reference**](docs/API.md): Backend API endpoints and usage
*   [**First Steps**](docs/FIRST_STEPS.md): Getting started after installation
*   [**Testing Guide**](docs/TESTING.md): How to run tests and verify functionality
*   [**Security Summary**](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md): Security audit and fixes applied

### Documentation Index

See [docs/INDEX.md](docs/INDEX.md) for a complete documentation map organized by category.

## 🧪 Testing

Proximity has a comprehensive test suite with 102+ tests covering:
- Backend models and services (100% passing)
- API endpoints and schemas
- Security features and authentication
- Backup and deployment functionality

### Running Tests Locally

#### Backend Tests

```bash
# Install test dependencies
cd backend
pip install -r requirements-test.txt

# Run all tests with pytest (REQUIRED - not python manage.py test)
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest

# Run with verbose output
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest -v

# Run specific test file
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest tests/test_models.py

# Run with coverage report
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --cov=apps --cov=tests
```

**Important**: Always use `pytest` (not `python manage.py test`) for the full test suite. Django's test runner only discovers 26 tests, while pytest discovers all 102.

#### Frontend Tests

```bash
# Install dependencies
cd frontend
npm install

# Run Playwright E2E tests (requires running backend)
npm run test:e2e

# Build frontend
npm run build
```

### Test Status

- **Backend**: 102/102 tests passing ✅
- **Frontend**: All security fixes verified ✅
- **E2E Tests**: Ready when backend is running

For more details, see [TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md).

## 💻 Development

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Backend development
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-test.txt

# Run development server with mock Proxmox
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 python manage.py runserver

# Frontend development
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Project Structure

```
proximity/
├── backend/              # Django REST API
│   ├── apps/            # Feature apps (proxmox, applications, backups, catalog, etc.)
│   ├── tests/           # Unit tests
│   ├── proximity/       # Django settings
│   └── requirements.txt # Python dependencies
├── frontend/            # SvelteKit web application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── lib/        # Utilities and components
│   │   ├── routes/     # Page components
│   │   └── styles/     # Global styling
│   └── package.json    # JavaScript dependencies
├── docs/               # Documentation
├── docker-compose.yml  # Full stack orchestration
└── STATUS.md          # Project status and progress
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Proximity is built by the community, for the community. We welcome contributions of all kinds!

Before contributing, please:
1. Read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. Check the [STATUS.md](STATUS.md) for current project state
3. Review the [Security Summary](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md) for security guidelines

## 🔒 Security

This project has undergone a comprehensive security audit with fixes for:
- Command injection prevention (SSH escaping)
- Authentication hardening (JWT + session-based)
- Encryption (Fernet for sensitive data)
- CORS hardening and authorization checks
- Input validation and rate limiting

See [SECURITY_SUMMARY.md](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md) for detailed security information.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor: Remove unused AJAX form script and enhance CSP for production
- Deleted unused AJAX form script from static files.
- Updated Content Security Policy (CSP) in hooks.server.ts to allow connections to backend services in both development and production environments.
- Added logger import to various Svelte components for improved logging capabilities.
- Introduced new CSS and JS files to manage usability of password fields in the admin interface, including fallback support for browsers that do not support the :has selector.

README.md, after:

# Proximity
Proximity is an open-source, immersive management layer for Proxmox based personal infrastructure.

> Conside that the project is still in beta, I need to complete some features and important UI stuff. In the meanwhile you can help me to make it flawlessy UX by suggesting anything you want to be included :) Happy testing!

> See [STATUS.md](STATUS.md) for detailed project status and progress.

---

## ✨ Key Features

*   **"Casa Digitale" (Digital Homestead):** An immersive, skeuomorphic "Command Deck" UI. We are building a virtual data center, not a web form.
*   **"Divertimento" (Fun):** A "gamified" UX with tactile interactions, animations, and audio feedback.
*   **"Tranquillità by Default" (Peace of Mind):** Self-healing backend, zero-downtime operations, and safety-first design.
*   **One-Click App Deployment:** Deploy from a curated catalog of applications in seconds.
*   **Container Adoption:** Discover and manage existing LXC containers on your Proxmox host.
*   **Real-time Monitoring:** Live metrics for CPU, RAM, and disk usage integrated directly into the UI.
*   **Automated Backups:** Configure and forget with scheduled, automatic backups.

## 🚀 Quick Start

Get Proximity up and running in a few minutes.

### Prerequisites

*   Docker & Docker Compose
*   Git
*   A running Proxmox VE host (v7.0+)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/fabriziosalmi/proximity.git
    cd proximity
    ```

2.  **Configure your environment:**
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    # Edit .env with your Proxmox host credentials and a new SECRET_KEY
    ```
    Update the `.env` file with:
    - Proxmox host IP/hostname and credentials
    - A new `SECRET_KEY` (generate with: `python -c "from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())"`)
    - Database URL (defaults to SQLite, can use PostgreSQL)

3.  **Launch the stack:**
    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d --build
    ```

4.  **Initialize the database:**
    ```bash
    docker-compose exec backend python manage.py migrate
    docker-compose exec backend python manage.py createsuperuser
    ```

5.  **Access Proximity:**
    *   **Frontend:** `https://localhost` (via Docker reverse proxy)
    *   **Backend API:** `http://localhost:8000/api/` (development)
    *   **API Docs:** `http://localhost:8000/api/docs` (Swagger UI)

For more detailed instructions, see the [Installation Guide](docs/INSTALLATION.md).

## 📚 Documentation

*   [**Project Status**](STATUS.md): Current progress, test results, deployment readiness
*   [**Installation Guide**](docs/INSTALLATION.md): Detailed setup and deployment instructions
*   [**Architecture**](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md): System design and technical architecture
*   [**API Reference**](docs/API.md): Backend API endpoints and usage
*   [**First Steps**](docs/FIRST_STEPS.md): Getting started after installation
*   [**Testing Guide**](docs/TESTING.md): How to run tests and verify functionality
*   [**Security Summary**](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md): Security audit and fixes applied

### Documentation Index

See [docs/INDEX.md](docs/INDEX.md) for a complete documentation map organized by category.

## 🧪 Testing

Proximity has a comprehensive test suite with 102+ tests covering:
- Backend models and services (100% passing)
- API endpoints and schemas
- Security features and authentication
- Backup and deployment functionality

### Running Tests Locally

#### Backend Tests

```bash
# Install test dependencies
cd backend
pip install -r requirements-test.txt

# Run all tests with pytest (REQUIRED - not python manage.py test)
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest

# Run with verbose output
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest -v

# Run specific test file
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest tests/test_models.py

# Run with coverage report
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --cov=apps --cov=tests
```

**Important**: Always use `pytest` (not `python manage.py test`) for the full test suite. Django's test runner only discovers 26 tests, while pytest discovers all 102.

#### Frontend Tests

```bash
# Install dependencies
cd frontend
npm install

# Run Playwright E2E tests (requires running backend)
npm run test:e2e

# Build frontend
npm run build
```

### Test Status

- **Backend**: 102/102 tests passing ✅
- **Frontend**: All security fixes verified ✅
- **E2E Tests**: Ready when backend is running

For more details, see [TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md).

## 💻 Development

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Backend development
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-test.txt

# Run development server with mock Proxmox
env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 python manage.py runserver

# Frontend development
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Project Structure

```
proximity/
├── backend/              # Django REST API
│   ├── apps/            # Feature apps (proxmox, applications, backups, catalog, etc.)
│   ├── tests/           # Unit tests
│   ├── proximity/       # Django settings
│   └── requirements.txt # Python dependencies
├── frontend/            # SvelteKit web application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── lib/        # Utilities and components
│   │   ├── routes/     # Page components
│   │   └── styles/     # Global styling
│   └── package.json    # JavaScript dependencies
├── docs/               # Documentation
├── docker-compose.yml  # Full stack orchestration
└── STATUS.md          # Project status and progress
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Proximity is built by the community, for the community. We welcome contributions of all kinds!

Before contributing, please:
1. Read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. Check the [STATUS.md](STATUS.md) for current project state
3. Review the [Security Summary](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md) for security guidelines

## 🔒 Security

This project has undergone a comprehensive security audit with fixes for:
- Command injection prevention (SSH escaping)
- Authentication hardening (JWT + session-based)
- Encryption (Fernet for sensitive data)
- CORS hardening and authorization checks
- Input validation and rate limiting

See [SECURITY_SUMMARY.md](SECURITY_SUMMARY.md) for detailed security information.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
