STATUS.md, before:

# Proximity - Project Status & Progress

**Last Updated**: 2025-10-31 (Final - Dependencies Patched)
**Current Phase**: Production-Ready - 102/102 Tests Passing + All Vulnerabilities Patched
**Overall Completion**: 100% Backend Tests (102/102) | 100% Frontend Security (18/18) | 100% Dependency Security (22+ vulnerabilities patched)

---

## 📊 Executive Summary

### Progress Overview
| Component | Status | Tests Passing | Progress |
|-----------|--------|--------------|----------|
| **Frontend Security** | ✅ COMPLETE | Build successful | 100% |
| **Frontend Build** | ✅ COMPLETE | All deps installed | 100% |
| **Backend Models Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 28/28 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Services Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 30/30 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Catalog Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 25/25 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Backup Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 11/11 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Phase 1 Security** | ✅ COMPLETE | 4/4 Critical fixed | 100% |
| **Test Infrastructure** | ✅ FIXED | 102 tests discovered, all passing | 100% |
| **Overall Tests** | ✅ PASSING | 102/102 passing | 100% |

### Timeline
- **Day 1**: Frontend complete (8-10 hours) + Backend audit
- **Day 2**: Backend Phase 1 complete (2-3 hours)
- **Day 3 (Next)**: Backend Phase 2-3 (8-10 hours estimated)
- **Day 4+**: Security testing & production deployment

---

## 🎯 Frontend Security - 100% COMPLETE ✅

### Status
- **Production Ready**: All critical/high priority issues fixed
- **Issues Fixed**: 17/18 (94%)
- **Commits**: 6 security-focused commits
- **Files Modified**: 50+

### What Was Fixed
1. ✅ **Phase 1 (CRITICAL)** - 4 issues
   - Environment-aware logging (dev console, prod Sentry)
   - CSRF token enforcement
   - URL parameter validation
   - Sentry DSN hardening

2. ✅ **Phase 2 (HIGH)** - 3 issues
   - Response type validation
   - Null safety checks
   - Hostname validation (RFC 952/1123)

3. ✅ **Phase 3 (MEDIUM)** - 3 issues
   - Polling backoff (exponential)
   - Email validation
   - Request timeouts (30 seconds)

4. ✅ **Phase 4 (NICE-TO-HAVE)** - 5 improvements
   - CSP headers
   - Error boundaries
   - Fallback URL removal
   - Password field clearing
   - Debug logging removal

5. ✅ **Phase 5 (LOW)** - 2 improvements
   - Error message sanitization (30+ mappings)
   - Sensitive field protection

### Key Files
- `frontend/src/lib/logger.ts` - Secure logging utility
- `frontend/src/lib/types/api.ts` - Type guards & validators
- `frontend/src/lib/errors.ts` - Error sanitizer
- `frontend/src/routes/+error.svelte` - Error boundary page

---

## 🔒 Backend Security - Phase 1 COMPLETE ✅

### Phase 1: CRITICAL Vulnerabilities (4/4 Fixed - 100%)

**1. SSH Command Injection (RCE)** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/apps/proxmox/services.py:1078`
- **Issue**: Unescaped command arguments in `pct exec` call
- **Fix**: Applied `shlex.quote()` for safe escaping
- **Impact**: Prevents arbitrary code execution on Proxmox nodes

**2. Hardcoded Credentials** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/.env`
- **Issues**:
  - `PROXMOX_PASSWORD=invaders` → `change_me_in_production`
  - `LXC_ROOT_PASSWORD=invaders` → `change_me_in_production`
  - `JWT_SECRET_KEY` exposed → Regeneration instructions added
- **Impact**: Prevents infrastructure compromise

**3. Insecure SSH Authentication** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/apps/proxmox/services.py` + `models.py`
- **Improvements**:
  - Added SSH key-based authentication support
  - Implemented host key verification
  - Changed from unsafe `AutoAddPolicy()` to `WarningPolicy()`
  - Fallback to password auth if key fails
  - New `ssh_key_path` field in ProxmoxHost model
- **Impact**: Prevents man-in-the-middle attacks

**4. Password Encryption Verification** ✅ VERIFIED
- **File**: `backend/apps/core/encryption.py`
- **Status**: Fernet symmetric encryption already properly implemented
- **Details**:
  - Uses SHA256-derived keys from Django SECRET_KEY
  - Proper encrypt/decrypt lifecycle
  - Handles migration compatibility

### Additional Phase 1 Improvements

**Authorization Checks Added** ✅
- `backend/apps/proxmox/api.py`: Added auth to `/nodes` endpoint
- `backend/apps/applications/api.py`: Added auth to `list_applications()` and `create_application()`

**Security Hardening** ✅
- **DEBUG Mode**: Disabled (`DEBUG=false`) in production config
- **CORS Configuration**:
  - Prevented wildcard origins in production
  - Whitelist specific HTTP methods (DELETE, GET, OPTIONS, PATCH, POST, PUT)
  - Origin validation with proper error messages
- **Docker Setup**: Fixed shell injection vulnerability using HERE document

---

## 🚧 Backend Phase 2-3 - PENDING (4-5 hours each)

### Phase 2: HIGH Priority (4 issues)
- [ ] Input validation layer (Pydantic schemas)
- [ ] Authorization permission classes
- [ ] Missing endpoint authorization checks
- [ ] CORS additional hardening

### Phase 3: MEDIUM Priority (2 issues)
- [ ] Rate limiting (django-ratelimit)
- [ ] Audit logging for sensitive operations

### Phase 4: NICE-TO-HAVE (4 recommendations)
- [ ] Additional security headers
- [ ] Security event tracking
- [ ] Enhanced monitoring
- [ ] Documentation improvements

---

## 📁 Documentation Structure

### Root Level (Master Files Only)
- **`STATUS.md`** - This file (consolidated project status)
- **`SECURITY_SUMMARY.md`** - Detailed security audit & fixes
- **`README.md`** - Project overview
- **`CONTRIBUTING.md`** - Contribution guidelines

### `/docs/` Folder (Organized by Category)
- **`architecture/`** - System design & architecture
- **`guides/`** - User & developer guides
- **`api/`** - API documentation
- **`security/`** - Security-specific documentation
- **`archive/`** - Outdated/superseded documents

### `/backend/` Folder Structure
- `apps/` - Feature applications
- `tests/` - Unit & integration tests
- `proximity/` - Django settings
- `scripts/` - Development scripts

### `/frontend/` Folder Structure
- `src/lib/` - Utilities & components
- `src/routes/` - Page components
- `src/styles/` - Global styling

### `/e2e_tests/` Folder
- End-to-end test suite
- Test fixtures & helpers

---

## 🧪 Test Organization & Status

### Backend Tests - 100% PASSING ✅
- **Location**: `/backend/tests/` and `/backend/apps/*/`
- **Test Runner**: **pytest** (NOT `python manage.py test`)
- **Status**: ✅ PASSING (102/102 tests - 100%)
- **Breakdown**:
  - `tests/test_models.py` - **28/28** ✅ (100% - all model tests passing)
  - `tests/test_services.py` - **30/30** ✅ (100% - all service tests passing)
  - `tests/test_utils.py` - **8/8** ✅ (100% - all utility tests)
  - `tests/test_schemas.py` - **5/5** ✅ (100% - all schema tests)
  - `tests/test_auth.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100%)
  - `tests/test_sentry_integration.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100% - with warnings)
  - `tests/test_catalog_quick.py` - **3/3** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/applications/tests.py` - **11/11** ✅ (100% - node selection tests)
  - `apps/applications/test_node_selection.py` - **3/3** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/catalog/tests.py` - **25/25** ✅ (100% - catalog API & service tests)
  - `apps/catalog/test_api.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/backups/test_api.py` - **7/7** ✅ (100% - backup API tests)
  - `apps/backups/test_tasks.py` - **11/11** ✅ (100% - backup task tests)

**Important Note**: Using `python manage.py test` only discovers 26 tests (Django's test runner doesn't find pytest tests in `/backend/tests/`). Always use `pytest` for full test coverage.

### Frontend Tests
- **Location**: `/e2e_tests/`
- **Status**: ⏳ Requires running backend server
- **Coverage**: End-to-end browser tests
- **Types**: Login, deployment, navigation, error handling

### Running Tests
```bash
# Backend unit tests with pytest (RECOMMENDED - runs all 102 tests)
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest

# Backend tests with verbose output
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest -v

# Backend specific test file
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest tests/test_models.py

# Backend specific app tests
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest apps/applications/

# Run with coverage
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --cov=apps --cov=tests

# ⚠️ DO NOT USE: python manage.py test
# Django's test runner only discovers 26 tests (not the full 102)
```

### Test Infrastructure Fixes

**2025-10-31 - Migration System Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed Django `django_db_setup` fixture to apply migrations
- ✅ Database schema now includes all columns (ssh_key_path, etc.)
- ✅ Model tests: **28/28 passing** (was 4/28 due to missing schema)
- ✅ Test pass rate: **79%** (81/102) - improved from 71% (37/52)
- ✅ All Django migrations now applied to test database (SQLite in-memory)

**2025-10-30 - Previous Fixes**
- ✅ Fixed Django AppRegistryNotReady error preventing test execution
- ✅ Made catalog API endpoints public (auth=None) - fixes 401 errors
- ✅ Removed test_ssh_pct.py (was manual script, not unit test)
- ✅ All Phase 1 security fixes verified working in tests

---

## 📝 Recent Commits

### Latest Changes
1. `4957061` - feat: Add critical pre-launch features - log viewer and host delete (Oct 31)
2. `a91d2d6` - docs: Add documentation consolidation summary (Oct 31)
3. `cc0b336` - docs: Consolidate and reorganize comprehensive documentation (Oct 31)
4. `33666df` - feat: Achieve 100% test pass rate (102/102 tests passing) ✅ (Oct 31) - VERIFIED
5. `31b4345` - fix: Simplify backup API error assertions - 26/28 tests passing (Oct 31)

### Test Discovery Resolution
- **Issue Reported**: Only 26 tests discoverable, 76 missing
- **Root Cause**: Was using `python manage.py test` (Django runner) instead of `pytest`
- **Solution**: Use `pytest` command instead
- **Status**: ✅ RESOLVED - All 102/102 tests passing with pytest
- **Important**: pytest.ini is correctly configured, just needed proper test runner command

---

## 🔄 Next Steps - READY FOR DEPLOYMENT

### Immediate (Next 1-2 hours)
1. **Optional: Fix frontend Sentry configuration**
   - Currently fails during build with invalid project error
   - Can be disabled in `vite.config.ts` if not needed
   - Impact: None (Sentry is optional, frontend still builds with build hook error)

### Short Term (Next 1-2 days) - Staging Deployment
1. Deploy to staging environment
2. Run manual integration tests
3. Run security scanning tools:
   - `bandit` for code analysis
   - `pip-audit` for dependencies
   - `safety check` for vulnerabilities
4. Penetration testing (basic)

### Medium Term (Week after staging)
1. **Optional: Backend Phase 2-3 improvements**
   - Input validation layer (Pydantic schemas)
   - Rate limiting (django-ratelimit)
   - Audit logging for sensitive operations
   - These are hardening improvements, not critical

2. Production deployment after staging validation

### Test Verification Commands
```bash
# Verify all tests pass before deployment
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --tb=short

# Run security scans
bandit -r apps/ tests/
pip-audit
safety check
```

---

## 📊 Security Metrics

### Frontend
- **Type Coverage**: 100% (TypeScript)
- **Input Validation**: RFC-compliant URLs, emails, hostnames
- **Authentication**: JWT with HttpOnly cookies
- **Logging**: Environment-aware (dev: console, prod: Sentry)

### Backend
- **Authentication**: JWT + session-based
- **Encryption**: Fernet symmetric (passwords)
- **Authorization**: Role-based (admin/staff checks)
- **SSH**: Key-based + password fallback

---

## 🎓 Key Improvements Made

### Frontend
✅ Environment-aware logging
✅ Runtime type validation
✅ RFC-compliant input validation
✅ CSRF token enforcement
✅ Request timeouts (30s)
✅ Exponential backoff for polling
✅ CSP headers
✅ Error message sanitization
✅ Secure credential handling

### Backend
✅ SSH command injection prevention
✅ Hardcoded credentials removal
✅ SSH key-based authentication
✅ Host key verification
✅ Authorization checks on endpoints
✅ CORS hardening
✅ DEBUG mode disabled
✅ Password encryption verified

---

## 🚀 Deployment Readiness - TESTS FIXED + DEPENDENCIES PATCHED ✅

### ✅ Test Discovery FIXED
- **Issue**: Was using `python manage.py test` (Django runner) instead of `pytest`
- **Solution**: Use `pytest` command to run full test suite
- **Result**: 102/102 tests discovered and passing (100%)
- **Important**: pytest.ini correctly configured - just needed to use right test runner

### ✅ Security Dependencies Updated
- **Critical Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 7 Django SQL injection + RCE vulnerabilities patched
- **High-Priority Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 9 additional security issues resolved
- **Moderate Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 6 cryptography & network library updates
- **Total Issues Patched**: 22+ known vulnerabilities eliminated
- **Updated Packages**:
  - Django: 5.0.1 → 5.1.3 (critical security fixes)
  - Werkzeug: 3.0.1 → 3.1.3 (RCE prevention)
  - cryptography: 41.0.0 → 43.0.0+ (OpenSSL fix)
  - requests: 2.31.0 → 2.32.0+ (credentials leak prevention)
  - paramiko, pyOpenSSL, and 10+ other packages to latest secure versions
- **Status**: See [SECURITY_UPDATES.md](SECURITY_UPDATES.md) for complete details

### ✅ Ready for Production (Core Functionality)
- **Backend Tests**: 102/102 passing (100%) ✅ - Verified with updated dependencies
  - Models: 28/28 passing
  - Services: 30/30 passing
  - Catalog: 25/25 passing
  - Backups: 18/18 passing
  - Applications: 14/14 passing
  - Others: 12/12 passing
- **Backend Phase 1 Security**: All 4/4 critical vulnerabilities patched ✅
- **Frontend Security**: All 18 critical/high fixes complete ✅
- **Dependency Security**: All Dependabot vulnerabilities addressed ✅

### ⏳ Remaining Issues (Non-blocking)
1. **Frontend Build**: Sentry configuration error (non-fatal, can disable uploads)
2. **Backend Phase 2-3**: Input validation & authorization (security hardening, not critical)
3. **Rate limiting & Audit logging**: Phase 3 improvements (optional)

### Production Timeline
- **Current Status**: Ready for Staging (102/102 tests passing, dependencies patched)
- **Staging Deployment**: Can proceed immediately
- **Production**: 1-2 days after staging validation
- **Estimated**: Full production deployment by 2025-11-02

---

## 📞 Support

For detailed security analysis, see: `SECURITY_SUMMARY.md`
For architecture details, see: `docs/architecture/`
For API documentation, see: `docs/api/`

---

**Status**: ✅ **PRODUCTION-READY - ALL TESTS + DEPENDENCIES VERIFIED** - 102/102 backend tests passing (100%), all Phase 1 security fixes verified, frontend security complete, 22+ dependency vulnerabilities patched. Test discovery resolved (use `pytest` not `python manage.py test`). All Dependabot critical/high alerts addressed. Ready for immediate staging deployment. **STAGING-READY NOW. PRODUCTION WITHIN 24-48 HOURS.**

Commit message:

docs: Update STATUS.md - Django 5.1.13 with latest security patches

STATUS.md, after:

# Proximity - Project Status & Progress

**Last Updated**: 2025-10-31 (Final - Dependencies Patched)
**Current Phase**: Production-Ready - 102/102 Tests Passing + All Vulnerabilities Patched
**Overall Completion**: 100% Backend Tests (102/102) | 100% Frontend Security (18/18) | 100% Dependency Security (22+ vulnerabilities patched)

---

## 📊 Executive Summary

### Progress Overview
| Component | Status | Tests Passing | Progress |
|-----------|--------|--------------|----------|
| **Frontend Security** | ✅ COMPLETE | Build successful | 100% |
| **Frontend Build** | ✅ COMPLETE | All deps installed | 100% |
| **Backend Models Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 28/28 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Services Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 30/30 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Catalog Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 25/25 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Backup Tests** | ✅ COMPLETE | 11/11 passing | 100% |
| **Backend Phase 1 Security** | ✅ COMPLETE | 4/4 Critical fixed | 100% |
| **Test Infrastructure** | ✅ FIXED | 102 tests discovered, all passing | 100% |
| **Overall Tests** | ✅ PASSING | 102/102 passing | 100% |

### Timeline
- **Day 1**: Frontend complete (8-10 hours) + Backend audit
- **Day 2**: Backend Phase 1 complete (2-3 hours)
- **Day 3 (Next)**: Backend Phase 2-3 (8-10 hours estimated)
- **Day 4+**: Security testing & production deployment

---

## 🎯 Frontend Security - 100% COMPLETE ✅

### Status
- **Production Ready**: All critical/high priority issues fixed
- **Issues Fixed**: 17/18 (94%)
- **Commits**: 6 security-focused commits
- **Files Modified**: 50+

### What Was Fixed
1. ✅ **Phase 1 (CRITICAL)** - 4 issues
   - Environment-aware logging (dev console, prod Sentry)
   - CSRF token enforcement
   - URL parameter validation
   - Sentry DSN hardening

2. ✅ **Phase 2 (HIGH)** - 3 issues
   - Response type validation
   - Null safety checks
   - Hostname validation (RFC 952/1123)

3. ✅ **Phase 3 (MEDIUM)** - 3 issues
   - Polling backoff (exponential)
   - Email validation
   - Request timeouts (30 seconds)

4. ✅ **Phase 4 (NICE-TO-HAVE)** - 5 improvements
   - CSP headers
   - Error boundaries
   - Fallback URL removal
   - Password field clearing
   - Debug logging removal

5. ✅ **Phase 5 (LOW)** - 2 improvements
   - Error message sanitization (30+ mappings)
   - Sensitive field protection

### Key Files
- `frontend/src/lib/logger.ts` - Secure logging utility
- `frontend/src/lib/types/api.ts` - Type guards & validators
- `frontend/src/lib/errors.ts` - Error sanitizer
- `frontend/src/routes/+error.svelte` - Error boundary page

---

## 🔒 Backend Security - Phase 1 COMPLETE ✅

### Phase 1: CRITICAL Vulnerabilities (4/4 Fixed - 100%)

**1. SSH Command Injection (RCE)** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/apps/proxmox/services.py:1078`
- **Issue**: Unescaped command arguments in `pct exec` call
- **Fix**: Applied `shlex.quote()` for safe escaping
- **Impact**: Prevents arbitrary code execution on Proxmox nodes

**2. Hardcoded Credentials** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/.env`
- **Issues**:
  - `PROXMOX_PASSWORD=invaders` → `change_me_in_production`
  - `LXC_ROOT_PASSWORD=invaders` → `change_me_in_production`
  - `JWT_SECRET_KEY` exposed → Regeneration instructions added
- **Impact**: Prevents infrastructure compromise

**3. Insecure SSH Authentication** ✅ FIXED
- **File**: `backend/apps/proxmox/services.py` + `models.py`
- **Improvements**:
  - Added SSH key-based authentication support
  - Implemented host key verification
  - Changed from unsafe `AutoAddPolicy()` to `WarningPolicy()`
  - Fallback to password auth if key fails
  - New `ssh_key_path` field in ProxmoxHost model
- **Impact**: Prevents man-in-the-middle attacks

**4. Password Encryption Verification** ✅ VERIFIED
- **File**: `backend/apps/core/encryption.py`
- **Status**: Fernet symmetric encryption already properly implemented
- **Details**:
  - Uses SHA256-derived keys from Django SECRET_KEY
  - Proper encrypt/decrypt lifecycle
  - Handles migration compatibility

### Additional Phase 1 Improvements

**Authorization Checks Added** ✅
- `backend/apps/proxmox/api.py`: Added auth to `/nodes` endpoint
- `backend/apps/applications/api.py`: Added auth to `list_applications()` and `create_application()`

**Security Hardening** ✅
- **DEBUG Mode**: Disabled (`DEBUG=false`) in production config
- **CORS Configuration**:
  - Prevented wildcard origins in production
  - Whitelist specific HTTP methods (DELETE, GET, OPTIONS, PATCH, POST, PUT)
  - Origin validation with proper error messages
- **Docker Setup**: Fixed shell injection vulnerability using HERE document

---

## 🚧 Backend Phase 2-3 - PENDING (4-5 hours each)

### Phase 2: HIGH Priority (4 issues)
- [ ] Input validation layer (Pydantic schemas)
- [ ] Authorization permission classes
- [ ] Missing endpoint authorization checks
- [ ] CORS additional hardening

### Phase 3: MEDIUM Priority (2 issues)
- [ ] Rate limiting (django-ratelimit)
- [ ] Audit logging for sensitive operations

### Phase 4: NICE-TO-HAVE (4 recommendations)
- [ ] Additional security headers
- [ ] Security event tracking
- [ ] Enhanced monitoring
- [ ] Documentation improvements

---

## 📁 Documentation Structure

### Root Level (Master Files Only)
- **`STATUS.md`** - This file (consolidated project status)
- **`SECURITY_SUMMARY.md`** - Detailed security audit & fixes
- **`README.md`** - Project overview
- **`CONTRIBUTING.md`** - Contribution guidelines

### `/docs/` Folder (Organized by Category)
- **`architecture/`** - System design & architecture
- **`guides/`** - User & developer guides
- **`api/`** - API documentation
- **`security/`** - Security-specific documentation
- **`archive/`** - Outdated/superseded documents

### `/backend/` Folder Structure
- `apps/` - Feature applications
- `tests/` - Unit & integration tests
- `proximity/` - Django settings
- `scripts/` - Development scripts

### `/frontend/` Folder Structure
- `src/lib/` - Utilities & components
- `src/routes/` - Page components
- `src/styles/` - Global styling

### `/e2e_tests/` Folder
- End-to-end test suite
- Test fixtures & helpers

---

## 🧪 Test Organization & Status

### Backend Tests - 100% PASSING ✅
- **Location**: `/backend/tests/` and `/backend/apps/*/`
- **Test Runner**: **pytest** (NOT `python manage.py test`)
- **Status**: ✅ PASSING (102/102 tests - 100%)
- **Breakdown**:
  - `tests/test_models.py` - **28/28** ✅ (100% - all model tests passing)
  - `tests/test_services.py` - **30/30** ✅ (100% - all service tests passing)
  - `tests/test_utils.py` - **8/8** ✅ (100% - all utility tests)
  - `tests/test_schemas.py` - **5/5** ✅ (100% - all schema tests)
  - `tests/test_auth.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100%)
  - `tests/test_sentry_integration.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100% - with warnings)
  - `tests/test_catalog_quick.py` - **3/3** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/applications/tests.py` - **11/11** ✅ (100% - node selection tests)
  - `apps/applications/test_node_selection.py` - **3/3** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/catalog/tests.py` - **25/25** ✅ (100% - catalog API & service tests)
  - `apps/catalog/test_api.py` - **1/1** ✅ (100%)
  - `apps/backups/test_api.py` - **7/7** ✅ (100% - backup API tests)
  - `apps/backups/test_tasks.py` - **11/11** ✅ (100% - backup task tests)

**Important Note**: Using `python manage.py test` only discovers 26 tests (Django's test runner doesn't find pytest tests in `/backend/tests/`). Always use `pytest` for full test coverage.

### Frontend Tests
- **Location**: `/e2e_tests/`
- **Status**: ⏳ Requires running backend server
- **Coverage**: End-to-end browser tests
- **Types**: Login, deployment, navigation, error handling

### Running Tests
```bash
# Backend unit tests with pytest (RECOMMENDED - runs all 102 tests)
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest

# Backend tests with verbose output
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest -v

# Backend specific test file
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest tests/test_models.py

# Backend specific app tests
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest apps/applications/

# Run with coverage
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --cov=apps --cov=tests

# ⚠️ DO NOT USE: python manage.py test
# Django's test runner only discovers 26 tests (not the full 102)
```

### Test Infrastructure Fixes

**2025-10-31 - Migration System Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed Django `django_db_setup` fixture to apply migrations
- ✅ Database schema now includes all columns (ssh_key_path, etc.)
- ✅ Model tests: **28/28 passing** (was 4/28 due to missing schema)
- ✅ Test pass rate: **79%** (81/102) - improved from 71% (37/52)
- ✅ All Django migrations now applied to test database (SQLite in-memory)

**2025-10-30 - Previous Fixes**
- ✅ Fixed Django AppRegistryNotReady error preventing test execution
- ✅ Made catalog API endpoints public (auth=None) - fixes 401 errors
- ✅ Removed test_ssh_pct.py (was manual script, not unit test)
- ✅ All Phase 1 security fixes verified working in tests

---

## 📝 Recent Commits

### Latest Changes
1. `4957061` - feat: Add critical pre-launch features - log viewer and host delete (Oct 31)
2. `a91d2d6` - docs: Add documentation consolidation summary (Oct 31)
3. `cc0b336` - docs: Consolidate and reorganize comprehensive documentation (Oct 31)
4. `33666df` - feat: Achieve 100% test pass rate (102/102 tests passing) ✅ (Oct 31) - VERIFIED
5. `31b4345` - fix: Simplify backup API error assertions - 26/28 tests passing (Oct 31)

### Test Discovery Resolution
- **Issue Reported**: Only 26 tests discoverable, 76 missing
- **Root Cause**: Was using `python manage.py test` (Django runner) instead of `pytest`
- **Solution**: Use `pytest` command instead
- **Status**: ✅ RESOLVED - All 102/102 tests passing with pytest
- **Important**: pytest.ini is correctly configured, just needed proper test runner command

---

## 🔄 Next Steps - READY FOR DEPLOYMENT

### Immediate (Next 1-2 hours)
1. **Optional: Fix frontend Sentry configuration**
   - Currently fails during build with invalid project error
   - Can be disabled in `vite.config.ts` if not needed
   - Impact: None (Sentry is optional, frontend still builds with build hook error)

### Short Term (Next 1-2 days) - Staging Deployment
1. Deploy to staging environment
2. Run manual integration tests
3. Run security scanning tools:
   - `bandit` for code analysis
   - `pip-audit` for dependencies
   - `safety check` for vulnerabilities
4. Penetration testing (basic)

### Medium Term (Week after staging)
1. **Optional: Backend Phase 2-3 improvements**
   - Input validation layer (Pydantic schemas)
   - Rate limiting (django-ratelimit)
   - Audit logging for sensitive operations
   - These are hardening improvements, not critical

2. Production deployment after staging validation

### Test Verification Commands
```bash
# Verify all tests pass before deployment
cd backend && env USE_MOCK_PROXMOX=1 pytest --tb=short

# Run security scans
bandit -r apps/ tests/
pip-audit
safety check
```

---

## 📊 Security Metrics

### Frontend
- **Type Coverage**: 100% (TypeScript)
- **Input Validation**: RFC-compliant URLs, emails, hostnames
- **Authentication**: JWT with HttpOnly cookies
- **Logging**: Environment-aware (dev: console, prod: Sentry)

### Backend
- **Authentication**: JWT + session-based
- **Encryption**: Fernet symmetric (passwords)
- **Authorization**: Role-based (admin/staff checks)
- **SSH**: Key-based + password fallback

---

## 🎓 Key Improvements Made

### Frontend
✅ Environment-aware logging
✅ Runtime type validation
✅ RFC-compliant input validation
✅ CSRF token enforcement
✅ Request timeouts (30s)
✅ Exponential backoff for polling
✅ CSP headers
✅ Error message sanitization
✅ Secure credential handling

### Backend
✅ SSH command injection prevention
✅ Hardcoded credentials removal
✅ SSH key-based authentication
✅ Host key verification
✅ Authorization checks on endpoints
✅ CORS hardening
✅ DEBUG mode disabled
✅ Password encryption verified

---

## 🚀 Deployment Readiness - TESTS FIXED + DEPENDENCIES PATCHED ✅

### ✅ Test Discovery FIXED
- **Issue**: Was using `python manage.py test` (Django runner) instead of `pytest`
- **Solution**: Use `pytest` command to run full test suite
- **Result**: 102/102 tests discovered and passing (100%)
- **Important**: pytest.ini correctly configured - just needed to use right test runner

### ✅ Security Dependencies Updated to LATEST Versions
- **Critical Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 7 Django SQL injection + RCE vulnerabilities patched
- **High-Priority Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 9 additional security issues resolved
- **Moderate Vulnerabilities Fixed**: 6 cryptography & network library updates
- **Total Issues Patched**: 22+ known vulnerabilities eliminated
- **Latest CVE Fixes**:
  - Django 5.1.13: CVE-2025-59681, CVE-2025-57833, and all previous patches
- **Updated Packages**:
  - Django: 5.0.1 → **5.1.13** (ALL critical security fixes as of 2025-10-31)
  - Werkzeug: 3.0.1 → 3.1.3 (RCE prevention)
  - cryptography: 41.0.0 → 43.0.0+ (OpenSSL fix)
  - requests: 2.31.0 → 2.32.0+ (credentials leak prevention)
  - paramiko, pyOpenSSL, and 10+ other packages to latest secure versions
- **Status**: All Dependabot critical/high alerts addressed. See [SECURITY_UPDATES.md](SECURITY_UPDATES.md) for complete details

### ✅ Ready for Production (Core Functionality)
- **Backend Tests**: 102/102 passing (100%) ✅ - Verified with updated dependencies
  - Models: 28/28 passing
  - Services: 30/30 passing
  - Catalog: 25/25 passing
  - Backups: 18/18 passing
  - Applications: 14/14 passing
  - Others: 12/12 passing
- **Backend Phase 1 Security**: All 4/4 critical vulnerabilities patched ✅
- **Frontend Security**: All 18 critical/high fixes complete ✅
- **Dependency Security**: All Dependabot vulnerabilities addressed ✅

### ⏳ Remaining Issues (Non-blocking)
1. **Frontend Build**: Sentry configuration error (non-fatal, can disable uploads)
2. **Backend Phase 2-3**: Input validation & authorization (security hardening, not critical)
3. **Rate limiting & Audit logging**: Phase 3 improvements (optional)

### Production Timeline
- **Current Status**: Ready for Staging (102/102 tests passing, dependencies patched)
- **Staging Deployment**: Can proceed immediately
- **Production**: 1-2 days after staging validation
- **Estimated**: Full production deployment by 2025-11-02

---

## 📞 Support

For detailed security analysis, see: `SECURITY_SUMMARY.md`
For architecture details, see: `docs/architecture/`
For API documentation, see: `docs/api/`

---

**Status**: ✅ **PRODUCTION-READY - ALL TESTS + DEPENDENCIES VERIFIED** - 102/102 backend tests passing (100%), all Phase 1 security fixes verified, frontend security complete, 22+ dependency vulnerabilities patched. Test discovery resolved (use `pytest` not `python manage.py test`). All Dependabot critical/high alerts addressed. Ready for immediate staging deployment. **STAGING-READY NOW. PRODUCTION WITHIN 24-48 HOURS.**
